GUI Programs
========================

#### Overview of Programs

This directory contains all of the programs that visualize the data created by the main Localization program in various ways. The purpose of these programs is to both help with debugging and to help generate compelling visuals to use in our research paper and final presentation. 

The programs contains in this directory are :
* MATLAB - Takes the particle history list and uses this to generate plots showing the top and average weights over the length of the localization process. Mostly used to create professional-looking plots for the research paper. This program is run within the MATLAB environment and reads the particle history from a file that is autogenerated by the localization program.

* MapViewer - This program uses OpenGL and various OpenGL-related libraries to allow the user to traverse through the 3D environment in real-time during the localization process. The user can use the keyboard to 'float' around the environment while cubes representing the particle locations change as the MCL algorithm iterates. It allows the user to see if the particles are converging on a certain location in the map, and if that is the right location. This program relies on a particle history file that is auto generate by the localization program.

* PCLViewer - Much like MapViewer, but uses a non-textured environment, and is generally pretty slow to run. 

* PyViewer - Provides a top-down view of the particle locations and weights while the localization process takes place. Is not as fancy as the MapViewer program, but makes it much more clear to see if the particles are correctly converging or not. 

#### Furthur Information

None of these programs need to be run while the localization process takes place, and none of them communicate directly with either the localization program or the robot being localized. They merely can be run in the background and all obtain there data from the same file that is rewritten during each iteration of the localization loop.